index.md, before:

---
permalink: /
layout: layouts/page
description: Federal website standards will help agencies provide high-quality, consistent experiences for everyone. Comply with standards to improve your federal site.
---

Most people interact with the federal government online. Websites, apps, and online services offered by federal agencies should be easy to use and effective. We’re developing federal website standards to help agencies provide high-quality, consistent digital experiences for everyone. 

The standards will align with the requirements of the [21st Century Integrated Digital Experience Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/house-bill/5759/text) and with [OMB’s memo on Delivering a Digital-First Public Experience (M-23-22)](https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/management/ofcio/delivering-a-digital-first-public-experience/). 

## Actions for federal agencies to take{.checklist}
- Review the standards.
- Consider how the standards apply to your public-facing websites.
- Plan to evaluate your compliance with the [three pending standards](standards). Pending standards have already been finalized and will be required after a specified period of time.

## Standards will be released incrementally

The standards are being developed through a deliberative process that involves research with the public and with federal agencies. We'll continue to add information about standards as they're being developed. We'll also improve this website based on your feedback.

Commit message:

Text updates (#236)
* Update index.md

* Add basis for standards from 21C IDEA

* Update index.md

* Add pending timeline

We're adding more information about the pending timeline to the include. In the future, all pending standards won't have the same compliance timeline. For example, some standards will be required after one year and others might be six months. We will have buckets though - 6 months, 1 year, 18 months, 2 years...

FYI @caleywoods (Nothing to do about this now. Just want to note it.)

* Update index.md

* Update collection.html

* Update index.md

index.md, after:

---
permalink: /
layout: layouts/page
description: Federal website standards will help agencies provide high-quality, consistent experiences for everyone. Comply with standards to improve your federal site.
---

Most people interact with the federal government online. Websites, apps, and online services offered by federal agencies should be easy to use and effective. We’re developing federal website standards to help agencies provide high-quality, consistent digital experiences for everyone. 

Federal agencies are required to comply with website standards per the [21st Century Integrated Digital Experience Act (IDEA)](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/house-bill/5759/text). Standards will align with the 21st Century IDEA and [OMB’s memo on Delivering a Digital-First Public Experience (M-23-22)](https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/management/ofcio/delivering-a-digital-first-public-experience/). 

## Actions for federal agencies to take{.checklist}
- Review the [standards](standards).
- Consider how the standards apply to your public-facing websites.
- Plan to evaluate your compliance with the [three pending standards](standards). Pending standards have already been finalized and will be required after a specified period of time.

## Standards will be released incrementally

The standards are being developed through a deliberative process that involves research with the public, federal agencies, and other stakeholders. We'll continue to add information about standards as they're being developed. We'll also improve this website based on your feedback.
