about/index.md, before:

---
layout: layouts/page
title: About federal website standards
eleventyNavigation:
  key: about
  order: 2
---

Federal website standards are evidence-based actions that will help federal agencies:
- Meet the public’s evolving expectations for digital experiences
- Reduce the burden on agencies to research and design core web components
- Prioritize and plan web design and development projects

The standards will describe how agencies can offer a more consistent, high-quality user experience for the public. The [21st Century IDEA](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/house-bill/5759/text) instructs agencies to maintain as much standardization and commonality with other agencies as practicable in implementing the requirements of the Act. Increased standardization and cross-government collaboration reduce government-wide implementation costs and ensure a more consistent digital experience for the public. 


## OMB and GSA work with federal agencies to develop standards

### Office of Management and Budget (OMB)

OMB sets the policy and conducts oversight for federal websites. 

### General Services Administration (GSA)

As stated in [OMB M-23-22, “Delivering a digital-first public experience” (PDF)](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/09/M-23-22-Delivering-a-Digital-First-Public-Experience.pdf), GSA’s Technology Transformation Services (TTS) works with OMB to develop standards that align with OMB policies. TTS manages the standards development and publication through the Federal Website Standards program. 

### Digital Experience Council (DX Council)

The [DX Council](https://digital.gov/resources/an-introduction-to-the-digital-experience-council/) is a cross-agency group that supports government-wide efforts to deliver a digital-first public experience. The DX Council provides feedback on potential standards and advises the Federal Website Standards program office.

## Scope of the standards

There are many sources that describe federal website requirements and policies, (e.g., Section 508). Our goal is to create standards that aren’t explicitly covered by other federal policies. 

We’ll point to existing policies and guidance to make it easier for agencies to find federal website requirements and best practices.

## Status of the standards on this site

We’ll publish official standards and potential standards that are being developed. Each standard will have a status to indicate where it is in the process. 

- **Research**: This potential standard is being researched with the public and with federal agency staff.
- **Draft**: The text of this potential standard has been drafted and is being shared with federal agencies and other stakeholders.
- **Pending**: This will become a standard after a period of time. Agencies should plan to implement this standard.
- **Standard**: Federal agencies are required to comply with this standard.

## Potential standards are researched with the public and with agency staff

Federal website standards go through a rigorous workflow as described below. 

### Research a potential standard

For a potential standard to be considered, we must have reason to believe that the recommended action would improve the public’s user experience. If implemented by agencies, this action should result in a more consistent digital experience across federal websites. Evidence could be based on industry best practices and/or user research.

### Draft and iterate

If we find evidence that implementing a standard will improve the public’s user experience across federal websites, we draft the standard. During this phase we share the draft with OMB, the DX Council, and other federal agency staff. The draft standard will likely go through several iterations. The Standards team conducts usability testing sessions with agency staff and iterates as needed. 

### Approve and publish

The next steps are to approve and publish the standard. Standards are formally approved by GSA’s Technology Transformation Services (TTS) and OMB. Standards are published by TTS.

### Revise a published standard

For a change to a published standard to be considered, the revision must be shown to improve the public user experience of agency websites or to improve the clarity of the standard. Revisions could be prompted by new technologies or changes in user behavior.

### Withdraw a published standard

If we find evidence that a published standard should be withdrawn, we draft a justification. We share the justification with OMB, the DX Council, and other federal agency staff. The next steps are to withdraw and archive the standard. Withdrawals are formally approved by GSA’s Technology Transformation Services (TTS) and OMB. Standards are removed by the TTS Federal Website Standards program office.

Commit message:

Enable unique page descriptions (#192)
* Update meta.html

* Add description to banner standard

* Add description to page title standard

* Add description to meta description standard

* Update meta.html

* Put page-level titles/descriptions first

* Update placeholder site description

* Remove site description from being appended on to the page description

* Add description

* Add description

* Add description

* Add description

* Add description

* Add description

* Add description

* Change placement of description

about/index.md, after:

---
layout: layouts/page
title: About federal website standards
description: Learn about the benefits of federal website standards and how they're created and managed.
eleventyNavigation:
  key: about
  order: 2
---

Federal website standards are evidence-based actions that will help federal agencies:
- Meet the public’s evolving expectations for digital experiences
- Reduce the burden on agencies to research and design core web components
- Prioritize and plan web design and development projects

The standards will describe how agencies can offer a more consistent, high-quality user experience for the public. The [21st Century IDEA](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/house-bill/5759/text) instructs agencies to maintain as much standardization and commonality with other agencies as practicable in implementing the requirements of the Act. Increased standardization and cross-government collaboration reduce government-wide implementation costs and ensure a more consistent digital experience for the public. 


## OMB and GSA work with federal agencies to develop standards

### Office of Management and Budget (OMB)

OMB sets the policy and conducts oversight for federal websites. 

### General Services Administration (GSA)

As stated in [OMB M-23-22, “Delivering a digital-first public experience” (PDF)](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/09/M-23-22-Delivering-a-Digital-First-Public-Experience.pdf), GSA’s Technology Transformation Services (TTS) works with OMB to develop standards that align with OMB policies. TTS manages the standards development and publication through the Federal Website Standards program. 

### Digital Experience Council (DX Council)

The [DX Council](https://digital.gov/resources/an-introduction-to-the-digital-experience-council/) is a cross-agency group that supports government-wide efforts to deliver a digital-first public experience. The DX Council provides feedback on potential standards and advises the Federal Website Standards program office.

## Scope of the standards

There are many sources that describe federal website requirements and policies, (e.g., Section 508). Our goal is to create standards that aren’t explicitly covered by other federal policies. 

We’ll point to existing policies and guidance to make it easier for agencies to find federal website requirements and best practices.

## Status of the standards on this site

We’ll publish official standards and potential standards that are being developed. Each standard will have a status to indicate where it is in the process. 

- **Research**: This potential standard is being researched with the public and with federal agency staff.
- **Draft**: The text of this potential standard has been drafted and is being shared with federal agencies and other stakeholders.
- **Pending**: This will become a standard after a period of time. Agencies should plan to implement this standard.
- **Standard**: Federal agencies are required to comply with this standard.

## Potential standards are researched with the public and with agency staff

Federal website standards go through a rigorous workflow as described below. 

### Research a potential standard

For a potential standard to be considered, we must have reason to believe that the recommended action would improve the public’s user experience. If implemented by agencies, this action should result in a more consistent digital experience across federal websites. Evidence could be based on industry best practices and/or user research.

### Draft and iterate

If we find evidence that implementing a standard will improve the public’s user experience across federal websites, we draft the standard. During this phase we share the draft with OMB, the DX Council, and other federal agency staff. The draft standard will likely go through several iterations. The Standards team conducts usability testing sessions with agency staff and iterates as needed. 

### Approve and publish

The next steps are to approve and publish the standard. Standards are formally approved by GSA’s Technology Transformation Services (TTS) and OMB. Standards are published by TTS.

### Revise a published standard

For a change to a published standard to be considered, the revision must be shown to improve the public user experience of agency websites or to improve the clarity of the standard. Revisions could be prompted by new technologies or changes in user behavior.

### Withdraw a published standard

If we find evidence that a published standard should be withdrawn, we draft a justification. We share the justification with OMB, the DX Council, and other federal agency staff. The next steps are to withdraw and archive the standard. Withdrawals are formally approved by GSA’s Technology Transformation Services (TTS) and OMB. Standards are removed by the TTS Federal Website Standards program office.
