standards/banner.md, before:

---
layout: layouts/page-single
tags: standards
title: Federal government banner
why: The banner identifies official websites of federal government organizations in the United States.
status: Pending
description: The federal government banner identifies official federal government sites. Learn how to implement the banner on your federal government site.
date: "2024-09-26"
---

## Status

{% include "_includes/status/pending.html" %}

## Standard

Use the federal government banner at the top of every page to identify your site as an official federal government site.

## Why

The banner identifies official websites of federal government organizations in the United States. The banner helps people understand that the website is official and secure. The banner is one of the most recognizable design elements on federal websites.

## Applies to

Executive branch agency websites and digital services that are intended for use by the public and on .gov or .mil domains

## Acceptance criteria

These conditions must be met to comply with this standard.

- The federal government banner must be at the top of every page of your site.
- The banner must appear on a line by itself.
- The banner implementation must include the following elements as specified by the [U.S. Web Design System (USWDS) banner component](https://designsystem.digital.gov/components/banner/):
    - U.S. flag image
    - Text that identifies an official U.S. government site
    - Drop-down with:
      - Text that identifies an official .gov or .mil domain
      - Text that describes HTTPS connections
     
Agencies are encouraged to [use the USWDS banner component to meet this standard](https://designsystem.digital.gov/components/banner/). If you’re using another design system, you still need to meet these criteria.

## How to implement

These are tips to help you implement this standard.

- Follow the current [U.S. Web Design System (USWDS) guidance on the banner component](https://designsystem.digital.gov/components/banner/).

## Example

{% include "_includes/uswds-components/banner.html" %}

## Read more

- [OMB memo on Delivering a Digital-First Public Experience: Consistent Visual Design and Agency Brand Identity](https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/management/ofcio/delivering-a-digital-first-public-experience/#IIIA:~:text=2.%20Consistent%20Visual%20Design%20and%20Agency%20Brand%20Identity)

Commit message:

Allow the comply date on pending standards to be dynamic from front matter

standards/banner.md, after:

---
layout: layouts/page-single
tags: standards
title: Federal government banner
why: The banner identifies official websites of federal government organizations in the United States.
status: Pending
description: The federal government banner identifies official federal government sites. Learn how to implement the banner on your federal government site.
date: "2024-09-26"
comply_by_date: "September 26th, 2025"
---

## Status

{% include "_includes/status/pending.html" comply_by_date: comply_by_date %}


## Standard

Use the federal government banner at the top of every page to identify your site as an official federal government site.

## Why

The banner identifies official websites of federal government organizations in the United States. The banner helps people understand that the website is official and secure. The banner is one of the most recognizable design elements on federal websites.

## Applies to

Executive branch agency websites and digital services that are intended for use by the public and on .gov or .mil domains

## Acceptance criteria

These conditions must be met to comply with this standard.

- The federal government banner must be at the top of every page of your site.
- The banner must appear on a line by itself.
- The banner implementation must include the following elements as specified by the [U.S. Web Design System (USWDS) banner component](https://designsystem.digital.gov/components/banner/):
    - U.S. flag image
    - Text that identifies an official U.S. government site
    - Drop-down with:
      - Text that identifies an official .gov or .mil domain
      - Text that describes HTTPS connections
     
Agencies are encouraged to [use the USWDS banner component to meet this standard](https://designsystem.digital.gov/components/banner/). If you’re using another design system, you still need to meet these criteria.

## How to implement

These are tips to help you implement this standard.

- Follow the current [U.S. Web Design System (USWDS) guidance on the banner component](https://designsystem.digital.gov/components/banner/).

## Example

{% include "_includes/uswds-components/banner.html" %}

## Read more

- [OMB memo on Delivering a Digital-First Public Experience: Consistent Visual Design and Agency Brand Identity](https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/management/ofcio/delivering-a-digital-first-public-experience/#IIIA:~:text=2.%20Consistent%20Visual%20Design%20and%20Agency%20Brand%20Identity)
