standards/contact-research.md, before:

---
layout: layouts/page-single
tags: standards
title: Contact
category:
  ["Information and services that are discoverable and optimized for search"]
why: Contact information that is easily and consistently accessible builds trust and credibility.
status: Research
surveyLink: 
date: Last modified
---

## Standard

Every website must include a contact page. Every web page or screen must link to your contact page. Your contact page must include all contact options for your agency, product, or service.

## Status

Research

## Why

Contact information that is easily and consistently accessible enables people to ask questions, give feedback, or get help with minimal obstacles. Contact pages that are informative, comprehensive, and accessible build trust and credibility.

## Applies to

Public-facing websites of executive branch federal agencies

## Acceptance criteria

- Every website must include a contact page.
- Every page of your site must link to your contact page.
- The contact link should be in the same place on every page of your site.
- The contact link should be in your site’s header or footer.
- The link text for your contact page should be “Contact” or "Contact us."
- Your contact page must include all contact options for your agency, product, or service. Contact information must include one or more of the following options:
- Email address
    - Include expected response time
- Phone number
    - Include hours of operation
- Online contact form
    - Include expected response time
- Online chat
    - Tell users whether they will interact with a person or a chatbot
- Social media channels
- Physical address (if appropriate)
- Mailing address (if appropriate and different from physical address)


## How to implement

- Include a contact page on your website.
- Link to your contact page from every page of your website.
- Include all contact options for your agency, product, or service on your contact page.


## Examples

- [Small Business Administration contact page](https://www.sba.gov/about-sba/organization/contact-sba)
- [Department of Justice contact page](https://www.justice.gov/contact-us)
- [Department of Energy contact page](https://www.energy.gov/contact-us)
- [Office of Personnel Management contact page](https://www.opm.gov/about-us/contact-us/)


## Read more

- [Nielsen/Norman 2019 report on contact pages](https://www.nngroup.com/articles/contact-us-pages/)

## Category

Information and services that are discoverable and optimized for search

Commit message:

Add new content type for standard in research

standards/contact-research.md, after:

---
layout: layouts/page-single
tags: standards
title: Contact
category:
  ["Information and services that are discoverable and optimized for search"]
why: Contact information that is easily and consistently accessible builds trust and credibility.
status: Research
surveyLink: 
date: Last modified
---

## Potential standard

Every website must include a contact page. Every web page or screen must link to your contact page. Your contact page must include all contact options for your agency, product, or service.

## Status

Research

## Why

Contact information that is easily and consistently accessible enables people to ask questions, give feedback, or get help with minimal obstacles. Contact pages that are informative, comprehensive, and accessible build trust and credibility.

## Research questions

We’re researching this potential standard. Research questions include:
- Where do users expect to find contact information on a page on desktop and mobile?
- Are users able to find the contact link as easily in the header, footer, and mobile menu?
- What kind of contact information do users expect to see (at a minimum)?

If you have research findings to share let us know at website.standards@gsa.gov or [join a discussion on Github about contact information](https://github.com/GSA-TTS/federal-website-standards/discussions/183). 


## Examples of agency contact pages

- [Small Business Administration contact page](https://www.sba.gov/about-sba/organization/contact-sba)
- [Department of Justice contact page](https://www.justice.gov/contact-us)
- [Department of Energy contact page](https://www.energy.gov/contact-us)
- [Office of Personnel Management contact page](https://www.opm.gov/about-us/contact-us/)


## Read more

- [Nielsen/Norman 2019 report on contact pages](https://www.nngroup.com/articles/contact-us-pages/)

## Category

Information and services that are discoverable and optimized for search
