standards/content-timeliness-indicator-research.md, before:

---
layout: layouts/page-single
tags: standards
title: Content timeliness indicator
category:
  ["Information and services that are discoverable and optimized for search"]
why: Timeliness indicators can increase user trust in the currency and accuracy of information.
status: Research
surveyLink: 
date: Last modified
---

## Potential standard

Inform users about the timeliness of content.

## Status

Research

## Why

Timeliness indicators can increase user trust in the currency and accuracy of information.

## Research questions

We’re researching this potential standard. Research questions include:

- Do users have preferences for the language used (published, updated, or reviewed)? 
- Should the language be standardized by type of content? 
- Do users have preferences on the length of time between updates for certain types of content? 
- How do users respond to multiple dates (e.g., published and updated)?

If you have research findings to share let us know at website.standards@gsa.gov or [join a discussion on Github about content timeliness](https://github.com/GSA-TTS/federal-website-standards/discussions/188).

## Read more

- [Use clear, unambiguous formatting and punctuation (Web Accessibility Initiative)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG2/supplemental/patterns/o3p06-format-punctuation/#examples)
- [Express dates and times in a clear and unambiguous way (Google developer documentation)](https://developers.google.com/style/dates-times)


## Category

Content that is authoritative and easy to understand

Commit message:

Enable unique page descriptions (#192)
* Update meta.html

* Add description to banner standard

* Add description to page title standard

* Add description to meta description standard

* Update meta.html

* Put page-level titles/descriptions first

* Update placeholder site description

* Remove site description from being appended on to the page description

* Add description

* Add description

* Add description

* Add description

* Add description

* Add description

* Add description

* Change placement of description

standards/content-timeliness-indicator-research.md, after:

---
layout: layouts/page-single
tags: standards
title: Content timeliness indicator
category:
  ["Information and services that are discoverable and optimized for search"]
why: Timeliness indicators can increase user trust in the currency and accuracy of information.
status: Research
description: Timeliness indicators can increase trust in the currency and accuracy of information. Learn how to add timeliness indicators on your federal government site.
surveyLink: 
date: Last modified
---

## Potential standard

Inform users about the timeliness of content.

## Status

Research

## Why

Timeliness indicators can increase user trust in the currency and accuracy of information.

## Research questions

We’re researching this potential standard. Research questions include:

- Do users have preferences for the language used (published, updated, or reviewed)? 
- Should the language be standardized by type of content? 
- Do users have preferences on the length of time between updates for certain types of content? 
- How do users respond to multiple dates (e.g., published and updated)?

If you have research findings to share let us know at website.standards@gsa.gov or [join a discussion on Github about content timeliness](https://github.com/GSA-TTS/federal-website-standards/discussions/188).

## Read more

- [Use clear, unambiguous formatting and punctuation (Web Accessibility Initiative)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG2/supplemental/patterns/o3p06-format-punctuation/#examples)
- [Express dates and times in a clear and unambiguous way (Google developer documentation)](https://developers.google.com/style/dates-times)


## Category

Content that is authoritative and easy to understand
