standards/meta-page-description.md, before:

---
layout: layouts/page-single
tags: standards
title: Meta page description
category:
  ["Information and services that are discoverable and optimized for search"]
why: The meta description supports accessibility and discoverability.
status: Pending
description: A descriptive and unique meta page description is important for accessibility and discoverability. Learn how to create quality meta page descriptions for your federal government site.
surveyLink: 
date: "2024-09-12"
---

## Status

{% include "_includes/status/pending.html" %}

## Standard

Summarize the content of the page in the meta description tag. The description should be unique and include key information about the page content.

## Why

The meta description supports accessibility and discoverability. The meta description will often appear in search results pages instead of a snippet of page content. The description, along with the [HTML page title](../html-page-title), helps a person decide whether or not to click a search result.

## Applies to

Public-facing websites of executive branch federal agencies

## Acceptance criteria

These conditions must be met to comply with this standard.

- Every page of your site must have a unique meta page description.
- Meta page descriptions must be at least 50 characters to ensure that they provide enough detail about the page’s content.

## How to implement

- Include a description in the `<meta name=”description”>` tag for every page of your website. The `<meta name=”description”>` tag is part of the `<head>` section of a web page.
- Page descriptions should summarize the content of a page. Descriptions should be written in plain language and include the most important information.
- Try to keep descriptions to between 50 and 160 characters. Descriptions that are too short might not include enough information about the content of the page. Descriptions that are too long often get truncated on search results pages.

## Examples

These examples show the HTML code for meta page descriptions.

`<meta name="description" content="Find out how to check the status of certain VA claims, decision reviews, or appeals online.">`

`<meta name="description" content="Learn steps you can take to lower your risk for health problems from high blood pressure, such as heart disease and stroke."/>`

## Read more

- [Google's best practices for quality meta descriptions](https://developers.google.com/search/docs/appearance/snippet#meta-descriptions)
- [USA.gov’s tips for using meta descriptions](https://blog.usa.gov/three-tips-for-using-meta-descriptions)
- [Search.gov’s guidance for descriptions](https://search.gov/indexing/metadata.html#description)

## Category

Information and services that are discoverable and optimized for search

Commit message:

Test adding context for the M-23 categories (#204)
* Update html-page-title.md

* Add category link to "read more"

* Update html-page-title.md

* Add M-23 category to "read more"; rm category field/label for now

* Add M-23 category to "read more"; rm category field/label for now

* RM category

* RM category

* Add M-23 category to "read more"; rm category field/label for now

* Trying to fix list display issue

* Fix link

* Update banner.md

* Update content-timeliness-indicator-research.md

* Update content-timeliness-indicator-research.md

standards/meta-page-description.md, after:

---
layout: layouts/page-single
tags: standards
title: Meta page description
category:
  ["Information and services that are discoverable and optimized for search"]
why: The meta description supports accessibility and discoverability.
status: Pending
description: A descriptive and unique meta page description is important for accessibility and discoverability. Learn how to create quality meta page descriptions for your federal government site.
surveyLink: 
date: "2024-09-12"
---

## Status

{% include "_includes/status/pending.html" %}

## Standard

Summarize the content of the page in the meta description tag. The description should be unique and include key information about the page content.

## Why

The meta description supports accessibility and discoverability. The meta description will often appear in search results pages instead of a snippet of page content. The description, along with the [HTML page title](../html-page-title), helps a person decide whether or not to click a search result.

## Applies to

Public-facing websites of executive branch federal agencies

## Acceptance criteria

These conditions must be met to comply with this standard.

- Every page of your site must have a unique meta page description.
- Meta page descriptions must be at least 50 characters to ensure that they provide enough detail about the page’s content.

## How to implement

- Include a description in the `<meta name=”description”>` tag for every page of your website. The `<meta name=”description”>` tag is part of the `<head>` section of a web page.
- Page descriptions should summarize the content of a page. Descriptions should be written in plain language and include the most important information.
- Try to keep descriptions to between 50 and 160 characters. Descriptions that are too short might not include enough information about the content of the page. Descriptions that are too long often get truncated on search results pages.

## Examples

These examples show the HTML code for meta page descriptions.

`<meta name="description" content="Find out how to check the status of certain VA claims, decision reviews, or appeals online.">`

`<meta name="description" content="Learn steps you can take to lower your risk for health problems from high blood pressure, such as heart disease and stroke."/>`

## Read more

- [Google's best practices for quality meta descriptions](https://developers.google.com/search/docs/appearance/snippet#meta-descriptions)
- [USA.gov’s tips for using meta descriptions](https://blog.usa.gov/three-tips-for-using-meta-descriptions)
- [Search.gov’s guidance for descriptions](https://search.gov/indexing/metadata.html#description)
- [OMB memo on Delivering a Digital-First Public Experience: Information and services that are discoverable and optimized for search](https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/management/ofcio/delivering-a-digital-first-public-experience/#IIIA:~:text=4.%20Information%20and%20Services%20That%20Are%20Discoverable%20and%20Optimized%20for%20Search)
