standards/site-search-draft.md, before:

---
layout: layouts/page-single
tags: standards
title: Site search
category:
  ["Information and services that are discoverable and optimized for search"]
why: Search functionality is an expected feature for websites and digital services.
status: Draft
description: Search functionality is an expected feature for websites and digital services. Learn how to add a search capability to your federal government site.
surveyLink: 
pageFlowSection:
date: "2024-09-12"
---

## Status

{% include "_includes/status/draft.html" %}

Email us if you have feedback at website.standards@gsa.gov or [join a discussion on GitHub about site search](https://github.com/GSA-TTS/federal-website-standards/discussions/233).

## Standard

Public-facing websites must contain a search function that allows users to easily search content intended for public use. 

## Why

Search is a basic and universal part of using the internet, and search functionality is an expected feature for websites and digital services. 

## Applies to

Public-facing websites of executive branch federal agencies

## Acceptance criteria

- Every website must include a search function.
- The search function must be available from the upper right corner of the page on a desktop view.
- The search function must be in the same place on every page of your site.

## How to implement

- Use [Search.gov](http://Search.gov) for on-site search solutions, or make sure your site can be indexed by Search.gov.
- Follow the [U.S. Web Design System (USWDS) guidance on search](https://designsystem.digital.gov/components/search/).
- The search function should be a site-wide global search. When appropriate for your users, the search feature could search subsets of content (e.g., help, blog, videos).


## Read more

- [Get started with Search.gov](https://search.gov/get-started/)
- [An introduction to search from Digital.gov](https://digital.gov/resources/an-introduction-to-search/)
- [OMB memo on Delivering a Digital-First Public Experience: Information and services that are discoverable and optimized for search](https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/management/ofcio/delivering-a-digital-first-public-experience/#IIIA:~:text=4.%20Information%20and%20Services%20That%20Are%20Discoverable%20and%20Optimized%20for%20Search)

Commit message:

Add a join the conversation include to callout how to give feedback on standards (#248)
* Add a join the conversation include to callout how to give feedback on standards

* Moved this one up under the status

* Not sure if this will remove the space

* Update site-search-draft.md

* Making the ask more generic

We won't (generally) be looking for research to share for standards that have been drafted.

* Update title for standard and discussion

* Update discussion title

* Update contact-research.md

* Testing moving the feedback module back to the bottom and adding a heading

* Moving feedback to the bottom

* Update contact-research.md

* Move feedback to bottom

* Update contact-research.md

* Update site-search-draft.md

* Update content-timeliness-indicator-research.md

---------

Co-authored-by: Michelle Rago <60157596+michelle-rago@users.noreply.github.com>

standards/site-search-draft.md, after:

---
layout: layouts/page-single
tags: standards
title: Site search
category:
  ["Information and services that are discoverable and optimized for search"]
why: Search functionality is an expected feature for websites and digital services.
status: Draft
description: Search functionality is an expected feature for websites and digital services. Learn how to add a search capability to your federal government site.
surveyLink: 
pageFlowSection:
date: "2024-09-25"
github_discussion_number: 233
join_the_conversation_name: site search
---

## Status

{% include "_includes/status/draft.html" %}

## Standard

Public-facing websites must contain a search function that allows users to easily search content intended for public use. 

## Why

Search is a basic and universal part of using the internet, and search functionality is an expected feature for websites and digital services. 

## Applies to

Public-facing websites of executive branch federal agencies

## Acceptance criteria

- Every website must include a search function.
- The search function must be available from the upper right corner of the page on a desktop view.
- The search function must be in the same place on every page of your site.

## How to implement

- Use [Search.gov](http://Search.gov) for on-site search solutions, or make sure your site can be indexed by Search.gov.
- Follow the [U.S. Web Design System (USWDS) guidance on search](https://designsystem.digital.gov/components/search/).
- The search function should be a site-wide global search. When appropriate for your users, the search feature could search subsets of content (e.g., help, blog, videos).

## Read more

- [Get started with Search.gov](https://search.gov/get-started/)
- [An introduction to search from Digital.gov](https://digital.gov/resources/an-introduction-to-search/)
- [OMB memo on Delivering a Digital-First Public Experience: Information and services that are discoverable and optimized for search](https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/management/ofcio/delivering-a-digital-first-public-experience/#IIIA:~:text=4.%20Information%20and%20Services%20That%20Are%20Discoverable%20and%20Optimized%20for%20Search)

## Feedback

{% include "_includes/join-the-conversation.html" discussion_number: github_discussion_number name: join_the_conversation_name %}
