standards/site-search.md, before:

---
layout: layouts/page-single
tags: standards
title: Site search
why: Search functionality is an expected feature for websites and digital services.
status: Draft
description: Search functionality is an expected feature for websites and digital services. Learn how to add a search capability to your federal government site.
date: "2024-09-25"
github_discussion_number: 233
join_the_conversation_name: site search
---

## Status

{% include "_includes/status/draft.html" %}

## Standard

Public-facing websites must contain a search function that allows users to easily search content intended for public use. 

## Why

Search is a basic and universal part of using the internet, and search functionality is an expected feature for websites and digital services. 

## Applies to

Executive branch agency websites and digital services that are intended for use by the public

## Acceptance criteria

- Every website must include a search function.
- The search function must be available from the upper right corner of the page on a desktop view.
- The search function must be in the same place on every page of your site.

## How to implement

These are tips to help you implement this standard.

- Use [Search.gov](http://Search.gov) for on-site search solutions, or make sure your site can be indexed by Search.gov.
- Follow the [U.S. Web Design System (USWDS) guidance on search](https://designsystem.digital.gov/components/search/).
- The search function should be a site-wide global search. When appropriate for your users, the search feature could search subsets of content (e.g., help, blog, videos).

## Read more

- [Get started with Search.gov](https://search.gov/get-started/)
- [An introduction to search from Digital.gov](https://digital.gov/resources/an-introduction-to-search/)
- [OMB memo on Delivering a Digital-First Public Experience: Information and services that are discoverable and optimized for search](https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/management/ofcio/delivering-a-digital-first-public-experience/#IIIA:~:text=4.%20Information%20and%20Services%20That%20Are%20Discoverable%20and%20Optimized%20for%20Search)

## Feedback

{% include "_includes/join-the-conversation.html" discussion_number: github_discussion_number name: join_the_conversation_name %}

Commit message:

Update site search with exemptions and new acceptance criteria (#284)
* Update site search with exemptions and new acceptance criteria

* Update last updated date

* Resolve conflicts

standards/site-search.md, after:

---
layout: layouts/page-single
tags: standards
title: Site search
why: Search functionality is an expected feature for websites and digital services.
status: Draft
description: Search functionality is an expected feature for websites and digital services. Learn how to add a search capability to your federal government site.
date: "2024-10-30"
github_discussion_number: 233
join_the_conversation_name: site search
---

## Status

{% include "_includes/status/draft.html" %}

## Standard

Public-facing websites must contain a search function that allows users to easily search content intended for public use.

## Why

Search is a basic and universal part of using the internet, and search functionality is an expected feature for websites and digital services.

## Applies to

Executive branch agency websites and digital services that are intended for use by the public

### Exemptions

This standard does not apply to:
- Digital products with minimal content that can easily be navigated without a search function
- Digital products whose sole purpose is to provide a lookup function (e.g., [https://data.census.gov/](https://data.census.gov/), [https://889.smartpay.gsa.gov/](https://889.smartpay.gsa.gov/), [https://www.usaspending.gov/](https://www.usaspending.gov/))
- Narrowly-focused applications that require user input in which a site search would take the user away from the application (e.g., job application, benefit enrollment)

## Acceptance criteria

These conditions must be met to comply with this standard.

- Every website or digital service, except for the exemptions listed above, must include a search function.
- On a desktop view, the search function must be available from the upper right corner of every page.
- The search function must be in the same place on every page of your site.
- A magnifying glass icon must be used to identify the search function. The icon can be used on its own or with the word “Search.”

## How to implement

These are tips to help you implement this standard.

- Use [Search.gov](http://search.gov) for on-site search solutions, or make sure your site can be indexed by Search.gov.
- On a mobile view, the search function should be outside of the mobile menu or at the top of the mobile menu.
- The search function should be a site-wide global search. When appropriate for your users, the search feature could search subsets of content (e.g., help, blog, videos).

NOTE: [The U.S. Web Design System (USWDS) search component](https://designsystem.digital.gov/components/search/) does not currently align with all of the relevant acceptance criteria for this standard. USWDS guidance will be updated before this standard moves to the pending phase. USWDS and the federal website standards will always aim to be in alignment.

## Read more

- [Get started with Search.gov](https://search.gov/get-started/)
- [An introduction to search from Digital.gov](https://digital.gov/resources/an-introduction-to-search/)
- [Site searches (WebAim.org)](https://webaim.org/techniques/sitetools/#site)
- [OMB memo on Delivering a Digital-First Public Experience: Information and services that are discoverable and optimized for search](https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/management/ofcio/delivering-a-digital-first-public-experience/#IIIA:~:text=4.%20Information%20and%20Services%20That%20Are%20Discoverable%20and%20Optimized%20for%20Search)

## Feedback

{% include "_includes/join-the-conversation.html" discussion_number: github_discussion_number name: join_the_conversation_name %}
